All right.
So that was a brief intro to the concept of Ajax asynchronous javascript and excel in this video.
The last one before we actually make requests.
We're gonna talk about Excel and this other thing I mentioned Jason javascript object notation.
So these are two ways of basically formatting data so that you can send it from a server to another
server or a server to a browser.
It's a format for information.
They both solve essentially the same problem.
We have some data that we want to send.
We need to figure out a common standard way of sending that information.
So if we had some data about a user for example where we have name would be something like Todd and
then we have you know e-mail is something else.
Todd at g mail and age could be a number like eighty nine.
This is information and I'm already formatting it in some way.
This isn't actually Jason.
This is an example but there's tons of ways we could do this right.
We could just use arrows to represent keys and values.
We could.
What else could we do.
We could do colons or we could go with Excel which is one format.
I'll show you what it looks like.
It stands for Extensible Markup Language.
You can think of excel as a very very broad almost the parent of each team.
It looks like aged him out except the element names are very different.
They're not actual elements.
Excel is a way of just grouping content and adding meaning to your data.
So if we were to represent this as X AML we actually use tags like name and then instead of that we
would put Todd and then we could have another tag for email and instead of that you put Todd at GM outcome
and we could even ness things so inside of the name we could have first and that would be Todd then
we could have second.
So it's very similar to edged him out in the way that we structure things the characters we use but
it means something entirely different x amount can represent any sort of information like First Name
Last Name.
What am I going with second.
Geez I meant last name email whatever.
Each team email represents the structure of a web page.
It uses similar formatting but otherwise it's it has a totally different purpose.
They both are encoding information so that it can be transferred from one machine to another across
the Internet.
Little tiny pieces of light or bits turning on and off but X M0 is just a broad way of structuring data
so X used to be a lot more popular.
You'll still see it sometimes.
It's actually kind of frustrating when you encounter an API you want to use that response with X.
It's just not very common at least in my experience but in JavaScript we have a way of taking data like
this and turning it into a javascript object like if this was a javascript object it would be a name
which has another object first.
Todd would be a string.
Last would be Smith as a string and then another property would be email Todd at gmail dot com.
This would be an actual javascript object we could use that we structure based off of this X amount
and JavaScript has a way of doing that.
We can parse text that is X amount and turn it into actual javascript so we can use it but there is
another format.
We've already mentioned which is called Jason and Jason is extremely common these days.
It stands for a javascript object notation so it is not javascript.
It looks like Javascript it shares a lot of things in common with javascript but it is not the exact
same javascript object notation is another format for sending data.
It's another notation but there are some key differences.
First of all every key in Jason must be a string with quotes.
We use colons instead of an object.
We also can use arrays.
We can have values like bad numbers boolean strings but we cannot store more complicated things like
functions as an example.
So the bad news is that it's not actually JavaScript.
The good news is that it's very close which makes it a great fit.
If we are using JavaScript because we can translate between Jason and JavaScript very very easily it's
a single function call instead of javascript.
So here's one of the API is will play around with later this API is called swampy or Star Wars API and
we can play around with this on their web page.
Let's look at star ships slash 9.
This is just their documentation.
So a little preview of what you get back.
And if I actually open up the dev tools and I go to network again let's go to planets slash 3.
You'll see that a request is sent.
Here is our response.
If I paste this over here it looks like a javascript object but it's not actually javascript at this
point.
But remember it's being sent as part of a response.
It's not actually javascript.
What we would do is then take it once we get it back and translate it into a real javascript object
which is really really easy to do.
So this is another format of representing information to take this example and turn it into Jason.
It would look almost identical to what we have here except we would have quotes around every key and
actually that's pretty much it.
If we had more complex data if we had a function from javascript we're trying to turn into Jason that
becomes problematic.
But there are ways around it.
So to sum of this up Jason is a format for sending data so as x amount X AML used to be very common.
Hence the term Ajax with an ex.
Nowadays most people use Jason and even though it's called javascript object notation it's named that
because it's very similar to JavaScript.
That doesn't mean you can only use it with JavaScript so these APIs we see will respond with Jason like
the Star Wars API.
I just briefly showed you it sends you Jason when you send a request to it but you can write a python
application that communicates with that API receives Jason and turns it into valid python.
You could do any you could do a ruby application and do the same thing.
So the name javascript object notation means that it is similar to JavaScript but it's not something
you can only use with JavaScript you can interact with it with any other programming language.
You just have to pass it.
You have to turn it into valid javascript and there's actually a format here.
This just a bunch of them.
Here's one I'm looking at which will tell you if your code is valid.
Jason.
So if I try and write some Jason that is not actually valid like person
is the string of Thomas and then let's just start with that let's process that invalid.
It tells me immediately strings should be wrapped in double quotes.
OK.
So I use single quotes here.
That should be double.
And this has no quotes.
Which is valid in JavaScript not valid.
And Jason if I try something like Hello or greets which should be a function it doesn't even do anything
it's just a function javascript wise.
This is totally fine.
But if I process it it tells me strings should be wrapped in double quotes expecting comma colon or
curly brace to close the object not an opening curly brace and it encountered in opening curly brace.
So it doesn't tell me you can't do functions because this parser doesn't really care.
It's telling me you're not following the exact rules of Jason which say after a colon you have to encounter
a comma another colon or a closing object brace like this object brace here which is closed down there.
So all of this is to say yes it's similar to JavaScript it is not javascript.
OK next we're getting at practice sending requests a couple of different ways.
We'll get Jason back and we will turn it into javascript and do something with the information that's
coming up next.